Ladies and gentlemen, first I want to thank this station for carrying this program as a
public service.
We will bring you news from Washington from time to time and interview outstanding personalities
in our nation's capital.
We will appreciate any suggestions that you make from time to time about the subject matters
to be discussed on these programs.
I'm very happy on this the first program of the year to have with us in the studio is
our guest, one of the most brilliant soldier statesmen of this country and indeed of the
world.
With a possible exception of the late President Eisenhower, I do not think in recent years
we have any person who has had such a brilliant military and civilian life as General Larus
Northstay.
General Northstay, it's wonderful to have you on this program with us and to talk with
you.
General Northstay, as you know, was the Supreme Commander Allied Command Europe from 1952
until he retired the first of December this year and he was also commander of the United
States forces in Europe.
I can say of my own knowledge because I have been very interested in him and of course
in our strength and building of NATO throughout the years that he has done a remarkable job
in bringing together the might and strength of the 15 NATO countries.
I think General Larus said that Nancy and I first got to know you early in the 1940s
when you were probably a major and I guess two years ago.
I think that perhaps 42 or 43 something about that time I would like to say.
How much this pleases me, this opportunity to appear on this program with you, not only
because it gives me an opportunity with you to speak to an important segment of the American
people, but it also gives me the chance to express to them the great sense of gratitude
that I feel toward you for the very active part that you have played over these last
many years now in furthering the cause of the Atlantic Alliance and in supporting NATO.
I remember seeing you and hearing your very forceful presentations at the NATO Parliamentarian
conferences for instance, in particular this year when under your leadership a strong
resolution supporting the Atlantic community, the Atlantic Alliance and NATO was adopted
by the NATO Parliamentarians.
So I'm delighted to have you.
Well, thank you, because thank you Larus.
Listeners, those seeing this program, well of course the NATO Parliamentarians have a
meeting every year in Paris in November.
Part of that meeting we have an opportunity of hearing a general North-State visiting
him at shape and he always receives this and has been over the years very, very highly
respected by the military and the civilian leaders, the political leaders of all of the
nations of Europe and of North America.
As General North-State we were talking about your original career, you were a lieutenant
or a major back in the forties and you got to be a Brigadier General and the war is a
major general and you went from there to obviously a full four-year-old.
That's an unfortunate expression.
When you took over a Supreme Commander in 1952 many of us had a feeling that our Allied
strength was not sufficient to protect Europe that we were precariously weak.
How have things progressed since during the ten years that you were Supreme Commander?
Well I think that the progress has been very considerable not because of anything that
I have done because of the support that has been given to the problem by all of the countries
of the alliance and I must say the particularly by this country, the United States.
We must remember that other countries, all of the other countries of the alliance have
made very major contributions.
It was set at the time of my predecessor.
I think he met up at the East Edit when he can reply to a question of what the Russians
need to move to the channel.
The answer was shoes.
I must say that in the end of 1962, beginning in 1963 the forces have grown and have been
organized and are so equipped and deployed that they must be regarded as a very significant,
very significant factor both in the deterrent that is the prevention of war but also a significant
force or factor for the defense and the vital part of the free world should this become
necessary.
General Norse, as you spoke of your predecessor, your immediate predecessor was General Grunt
where I believe and for him was Ridgeway and the first Supreme Allied commander was General
Eisenhower.
That's correct.
This is very hard to contemplate the great, to realize the tremendous job of bringing together
the armed forces of 15 nations, speaking different languages.
That's been your job and you've done it remarkably.
Thank you very much.
How do you feel that the NATO forces are in a position to defend ourselves or to defend
Western Europe against the Soviet Union and just the war?
I think Senator that, well, I'm really acknowledged.
The shortages, certain deficiencies within the alliance.
The same time we must recognize that very real strength has been built up, real strength
in the sense of divisions, of squadrons, of ships, real strength in terms of weapons,
conventional and nuclear.
In addition to that, we've organized so that we can direct these forces.
And sometimes, impressed, perhaps almost depressed, by our constant criticism of ourselves,
we are always talking about our weakness.
And I think it's well as necessary for us to be aware of our weakness.
At the same time, we must also realize our strength.
We not have not only military strength.
We must remember that because of the action that we've taken the determination that our
countries, including this great country, have shown facing up to the threat that we've
achieved great strength in many forms.
For instance, the one thing that you were very familiar with, from your work with NATO
and with the following Ontarians, which you have contributed, is the unity of the alliance,
which I feel at this time is very, very important.
If I may go on for just one more minute or another, you have the news of disagreements,
of divisions, of different views, particularly now, because we've had some notable statements
by Donald the GO, by Chancellor Adnan, and by Prime Minister McMillan in recent two weeks.
But we shouldn't let these differences of opinion, which I think are natural between
three countries.
We should let them, these differences obscure the fact that that time of crisis, such as
the crisis of Cuba, all of these countries supported and supported promptly the position
of the United States without equivocation and in the positive, most positive possible
terms.
This was really a proof of unity, when unity really counted.
And this is the record of the alliance, when unity really counts, it has always been there,
and I'm confident this was a critique.
And as always been there in the case of Berlin, it's always been there in case of Berlin.
Well, I was a highly pleased that the last NATO parliamentarians conference on this issue
of Berlin and Cuba, we've had strong resolutions without a dissenting voice, as you have said.
And I think undoubtedly that had a great deal to do with Mr. Kruša pulling back in
connection with Cuba.
There's no question about it.
Is this demonstration of unity?
I've been working on the European side, and you have been working with the Atlantic Alliance,
so on particularly where that alliance, the NATO countries, the unity of the NATO countries,
but you add to that the quite remarkable unity at that particular time of the American
states.
And the America, the countries of North and South America together, this must have been a
formidable force in support of the United States in this particular instance.
General Marcel, of course the largest contribution to the NATO armed forces has been made by the
United States, but other nations do make substantial contributions, a very substantial,
and I would point out that it's hopefully hard to measure precisely the contributions.
But the Germans, for instance, the Federal Republic of Germany is coming up and making
a very great contribution for instance.
They will be committed to us, I think, 11 divisions at the moment, and remember that
they're all deployed in the front line because Germany happens to be in the front line.
They also have given us very substantial air forces and very substantial naval forces.
So their contribution is very substantial.
All of the countries, all of the countries are making very considerable contributions.
I might, when I was in command, have hoped that some of them might have gone a little
more, a little faster, in fact, before 50 years, I did.
I still, at the same time, I was recognized that they all, every one of them, is making
a very substantial contribution, and these contributions added to that of the United States,
has created a force, a factor of major significance in our time.
Yes, well, General Norstead, how about the DeGau, I had an impact and the disagreement
between DeGau and, like, milling over the common market?
I think you see, I think, many of you think these things are going to work out eventually.
I think they have one case here of, they're talking about Paris and Bonn at Naur and DeGau,
we have an example, I think, of Cohesion, of a bigger cohesion, and perhaps in the case
of the UK, or the different relationship between Gau and the milling, it's particularly
a point on the question of the common market.
It appears, and I emphasize the fact it appears, to be evidence of some division.
From the standpoint of the first, that is the German-French relationship, I think this
is something that we all should applaud and should approve, because there has been, as
we all know, this historical enmity between these two countries, which are now for hundreds
of years, has caused wars, has caused wars, the purpose of these two men, and I know from
talking to the two men, has been to bury this particular hatchet for all time.
And this clearly is a contribution to this, and for that reason, I think it is the greatest
possible significance.
What springs from this, no one knows.
But I would hope that there would be a very close relationship, a relationship of growing
up, and a friendliness is very fondly at the present time.
And if this in turn will contribute to understanding and to unity within Europe and thus within
the West, I am not willing, at this time, to be too pessimistic about the relationship
between France and England, for instance, or the United Kingdom on a question of the
common market.
I personally feel that the larger format of the seven countries that is including the
UK is a sound or more viable arrangement than six, and I would certainly hope that conditions
would permit the introduction of the United Kingdom into that body.
Finally, pursue this as just one second longer, Senator, something that, and say something
that I know is important to you, it is important that we have these smaller groupings for specific
purposes such as this economic purpose in this economic community.
But the real pattern of the future is something that you and I have both supported, and that
is the full pattern of the Atlantic community.
This must remain our objective, because this is the way of peace, and this is the way of
prosperity for all people.
Well, I certainly wish we could go on longer because this is very interesting talking
with you.
General Norse deert is a leaving government, he is going to be vice president of Orange
Corning Fabbid-Lass Corporation and president of their International Division.
We hope you well in your student private life, and we want you to come to Tennessee to visit
us sometime.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, Senator.
Thank you.